Reword and rename “Managing Compute Resources for Containers” (#18940)
kubernetes/website: content/en/docs/concepts/configuration/manage-compute-resources-container.md

{{% capture overview %}}

When you specify a {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="pod" >}}, you can optionally specify how

> much resources each {{< glossary_tooltip text="Container" term_id="container" >}} needs.

Author: “resources” is a placeholder for, typically, CPU and memory. “How many memory” doesn't work as idiomatic English, so “how many resources” seems odd to me.
Maybe “how much of each resource the container needs”?

> much resources each {{< glossary_tooltip text="Container" term_id="container" >}} needs.

Reviewer: I like "how much of each resource the container needs" :+1:

> The most common resources you specify are CPU and memory (RAM), and there are others you might

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The most common resources you need to specify are CPU and memory (RAM), but there are others you might need to specify as well.
```

Author: This one I'm also not sure about; people never _need_ to specify requests and limits, but if they don't their cluster might not work how they'd like.

Reviewer: Then maybe "the most common resources to specify are..."?

> use as well.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

Author: I think you're suggesting I rewrite the final sentence to:
> The most common resources you specify are CPU and memory (RAM), and there are others.

Have I got that right?

Reviewer: Yes. 🤦‍♀

When you specify the resource _request_ for Containers, the scheduler can make better decisions
about which nodes to place Pods on. And when you specify _limits_ for Containers, that lets
the kubelet on a node manage contention for those resources.

> 

Reviewer: This paragraph confuses me a little, but maybe try:

> When you specify the resources a Container needs, the scheduler uses this information to decide which node to place a Pod on. When you specify the limits(? what are limits) for a container, a node's kublet manages contention for those resources.

Also, the idea of "resource contention" is confusing to me in general. It's mentioned all over in the docs so it's probably fine but... :|

Author: I'm not sure I can come up with wording that is clearer - sorry! I'm hoping that these changes are at least an improvement on what's there now.

Author: I've had a go!

{{% /capture %}}

{{% capture body %}}

## Requests and limits

> A Container can exceed its resource request if the Node has enough of that resource available.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Container can exceed its requested resources if the Node has enough of a resource available.
```

Author: How about:
```markdown
If the Node has enough of a resource available, it's possible (and allowed)
for a container to use more resource than its `request` for that resource specifies.
```
?

Reviewer: Ahh yes, I get what you were tying to say now. Yes, your suggestion works :)

> But a Container is not allowed to use more than its resource limit limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
However, a Container cannot to use more than its resource limit.
```

Author: Oops. Would this be OK:
```markdown
However, a Container cannot use more than its resource limit.
```
?

> For example, if you set a request of 256 MiB for a container, and that Container is in a Pod

Reviewer: Revision, but: 
> For example, if you request 256 MiB for a container, and that Container is in a Pod

... 256 MiB of what? RAM?

Author: Ah, this might work better:
```markdown
For example, if you set a `memory` request of 256 MiB for a container, and that Container is in a Pod
```

scheduled to a Node with 8GiB of memory and no other Pods, then the Container can try to use
more RAM.

If you set a memory limit of 4GiB for that Container, the kubelet (and

> {{< glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime" >}}) enforce the limit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
{{< glossary_tooltip text="container runtime" term_id="container-runtime" >}}) monitor the limit.
```

Less aggressive language. Take it or leave it :)

Author: It's enforcement: break the rules and the container gets terminated (also aggressive language, but to be fair we're talking about killing processes not people).

> The runtime prevents the container from using more than the configured resource limit; typically,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The runtime prevents the container from using more than the configured resource limit.
```

> in this case, the system kernel terminates the process in the container with an OOM (out of memory)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If a container exceeds their limit, the system kernel terminates the process in the container with an out of memory
```

error.

> Limits can be enforced either by policing (the system intervenes when it sees a violation) or by

Reviewer: Not a fan of the word "policing" for a11y/o11y reasons. I'm having trouble making a suggestion for an alternative, though.

1) Is "policing" something the kubenet/container runtime performs automatically, without intervention?
2) Similar question about prevention – is this something performed automatically?

Author: I wrote _policing_ to mean automatic, reactive intervention when violations are detected. (An attempt to violate the limit always or sometimes succeeds, and on success the container runtime acts to shut down the misbehaving container).

That's might be a better word; I realise that actually real-world police both intevene after crimes are detected _and_ they intervene to prevent crimes from happening.

_Prevention_ means that even if the Pod tries to violate its limit, it never succeeds (any attempt always fails).

Author: I've reworded.

resource limits, see the
[Troubleshooting](#troubleshooting) section.

### Monitoring compute & memory resource usage

The resource usage of a Pod is reported as part of the Pod status.

If [optional monitoring](http://releases.k8s.io/{{< param "githubbranch" >}}/cluster/addons/cluster-monitoring/README.md)
is configured for your cluster, then Pod resource usage can be retrieved from
the monitoring system.

## Local ephemeral storage

<!-- feature gate LocalStorageCapacityIsolation -->
{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.10" state="beta" >}}

> Nodes have local ephemeral storage, backed either by RAM or by locally-attached writeable devices. The kubelet uses local ephemeral storage to provide emptyDir {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="volume" text="volumes" >}} to Pods. The kubelet also uses this kind of storage to hold [node-level container logs](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#logging-at-the-node-level), container images, and the writable layers of running containers.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Nodes have local ephemeral storage, backed either by RAM or by locally attached, writable devices. The kubelet uses local ephemeral storage to provide emptyDir {{< glossary_tooltip term_id="volume" text="volumes" >}} to Pods. The kubelet also uses this kind of storage to hold [node-level container logs](/docs/concepts/cluster-administration/logging/#logging-at-the-node-level), container images, and the writable layers of running containers.
```

"Ephemeral" means that there is no long-term guarantee about durability.

{{< warning >}}
If a node fails, the data in its ephemeral storage can be lost. Your
applications cannot expect any performance SLAs (disk IOPS for example)
from local ephemeral storage.
{{< /warning >}}

> The kubelet manages local ephemeral storage provided that the different kinds of data (emptyDir volumes, writeable layers, container images, logs, etc) are all placed onto the node's root filesystem. If you have a different configuration, then the kubelet does not manage local ephemeral storage and does not apply resource limits.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet manages local ephemeral storage provided that the different kinds of data (for example, emptyDir volumes, writeable layers, container images, or logs) are all placed onto the node's root filesystem. If you have a different configuration, then the kubelet does not manage local ephemeral storage and does not apply resource limits.
```

### How Pods with ephemeral-storage limits run

> For container-level isolation, if a Container's writable layer and logs

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For container-level isolation, if a Container's writable layer and log
```

usage exceeds its storage limit, the Pod will be evicted. For pod-level
isolation, if the sum of the local ephemeral storage usage from all

> containers and also the Pod's emptyDir volumes exceeds the limit, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
containers and the Pod's emptyDir volumes exceeds the limit, the
```

Pod will be evicted.

{{< caution >}}
If the kubelet is not managing local ephemeral storage, then a container that uses more than its storage limit will not be evicted.
{{< /caution >}}

### Monitoring ephemeral-storage consumption {#resource-emphemeralstorage-consumption}

If the kubelet is managing local ephemeral storage, then the kubelet
measures storage use in:
- emptyDir volumes
- log directories
- writeable container layers

> This information can trigger Pod eviction if a Pod is using more

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This information triggers Pod eviction if a Pod is using more
```

Author: I think I'll try to rewrite it:
```markdown
If a Pod is using more ephemeral storage than you allow it to, the kubelet
sets an eviction signal that triggers Pod eviction.
```

but I need to get that checked for technical accuracy.

ephemeral-storage than you allow it.

The kubelet supports different ways to measure Pod storage use:

{{< tabs name="resource-emphemeralstorage-measurement" >}}
{{% tab name="Periodic scanning" %}}

> The kubelet performs regular, schedules checks that scan each

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The kubelet performs regular, scheduled checks that scan each
```

> emptyDir volume, each container log directory, and each writeable container layer.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
emptyDir volume, container log directory, and writable container layer.
```

> The scans provide a measurement of how much space is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The scan measures how much space is used.
```

{{< note >}}
In this mode, the kubelet does not track open file descriptors
for deleted files. If you (or a container) create a file inside an empyDir

> volume, something then opens that file, and you delete the file whilst

Reviewer: ```suggestion
volume, something then opens that file, and you delete the file while
```

> it is still open, then inode for the deleted file stays until you close

Reviewer: ```suggestion
it is still open, then the node for the deleted file stays until you close
```

Author: [inodes](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Inode) and [nodes](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/architecture/nodes/) are different things, so “node” is wrong here.

> that file. However, the kubelet does not see that the space is used.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
that file but the kubelet does not categorize the space as in use.
```

{{< /note >}}
{{% /tab %}}
{{% tab name="Filesystem project quota" %}}

{{< feature-state for_k8s_version="v1.15" state="alpha" >}}

Project quotas are an operating-system level feature for managing
storage use on filesystems. With Kubernetes, you can enable project
quotas for monitoring storage use. Make sure that the filesystem
backing the `emptyDir` volumes, on the node, provides project quota support.
For example, XFS and ext4fs offer project quotas.

{{< note >}}
Project quotas let you monitor storage use; they do not enforce limits.
{{< /note >}}

Kubernetes uses project IDs starting from `1048576`. The IDs in use are
registered in `/etc/projects` and `/etc/projid`. If project IDs in
this range are used for other purposes on the system, those project
IDs must be registered in `/etc/projects` and `/etc/projid` so that
Kubernetes does not use them.

Quotas are faster and more accurate than directory scanning. When a
directory is assigned to a project, all files created under a
directory are created in that project, and the kernel merely has to
keep track of how many blocks are in use by files in that project. If

> a file is created and deleted, but with an open file descriptor, it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
a file is created and deleted, but has an open file descriptor, the file
```

> continues to consume space. This space will be tracked by the quota,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
continues to consume space. This space is tracked by the quota,
```
